[source]
pmid = PMID:30208878
title = GNPTAB c.2404C > T nonsense mutation in a patient with mucolipidosis III alpha/beta: a case report
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:252600
disease_label = Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta
[text]
The proband was born of a non-consaguineous, in-vitro fertilization dichorionic twin pregnancy at 36 weeks of gestation.
The father and mother are Han Chinese, aged 30 and 38 years respectively (Fig. 1a). Except for previously treated
maternal Graves’ disease, there was no significant family history including neurodevelopmental delay or metabolic disease.
While the twin brother had a birth weight of 2.50 kg, the proband was small for gestational age with birth weight 1.79 kg,
with length and head circumference all below the 3rd percentile (Fig. 1b). Antenatal and perinatal history was unremarkable.
The proband was discharged on day 16 with body weight of 2.16 kg.
The current photo shows a clear lack of catch-up growth even at four months of age for the proband Note that facial dysmorphism was minimal.
At 24 months of age, the coarsening of facial features, trigonocephaly, flat nasal bridge and prominent eyes became more apparent (left).
The kypho-lordosis, crouched gait with bent knee posture was seen on standing. Claw-hand deformities were seen (right) (d)
Close-up view of the thick claw hand of the patient (left) and pectus carinatum deformity of the chest wall (right)
He was first referred to the authors’ Paediatric out-patient clinic for poor weight gain, microcephaly and increased tone
over all four limbs at five months of age (corrected age of four months). Head circumference and weight were below the third
centile. When reviewed at seven months old, physical examination showed failure to thrive with body weight and height
less than the third centile, head circumference at the third centile, plagiocephaly, and a closed anterior fontanelle.
There were no obvious dysmorphism or neurocutaneous stigmata. Chest, cardiovascular and abdominal examination was normal with no organomegaly.
 There was a reducible left inguinal hernia and the genitalia were normal. However, flexion contractures affecting both knees and tight hip adductors were noted.
 There was also increase in tone over the lower limbs with brisk deep tendon reflexes. Developmental assessment showed mild gross motor delay.
In view of the abnormal physical findings at the age of seven months, investigations include complete blood count and routine biochemical analysis of liver and renal function were done.
 The results were all within age-specific reference intervals. Blood lactate, pyruvate and glucose levels were normal. Thyroid stimulating hormone was not elevated.
 Urine cytomegalovirus culture was negative. Urine metabolic screening for ketones, reducing sugars, amino acids, phenylpyruvic acid, tyrosine metabolites, cysteine & homocysteine and keto acids were negative.
 DBS metabolic screening found unremarkable patterns of amino acids and acylcarnitines. Skull X-ray and non-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain did not
 reveal frank radiographic evidence of craniosynostosis or definite abnormal signal intensity in the brain.
Follow up imaging with X-ray and MRI spine at 13 months old showed anterior subluxation of the cervical spine at C1/2,
posterior hemivertebra at L2 and a mild kyphosis. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain at 14 months old showed fusion of
metopic suture and narrowing of sagittal suture. A repeated scan at 21 months old showed craniosynostosis with slightly
deformed skull shape, partial fusion of coronal suture near the vertex, sagittal suture and bilateral lambdoid sutures (Fig. 2a).
Retrospective review of a previous chest X-ray film found mildly widened ribs and scalloped vertebrae (Fig. 2b).
Subsequent regular follow up by the neurologists at 26 months of age showed persistent failure to thrive,
with progressive evolvement of coarse facial features (including prominent eyes, microcephaly with craniosynostosis,
low set ears, thick lips, thick spade-shaped claw hands), musculoskeletal abnormalities (kypho-lordosis, contracture over hip,
knee, elbow and wrist and obvious pectus carinatum) (Fig. 1c) and mild global developmental delay involving the gross motor, fine motor and verbal aspect.
Of note, there was no hepatosplenomegaly, and the child was noted to have microcephaly.
Spot urine testing was performed and found an increased mucopolysaccharide excretion (acid mucopolysaccharide to creatinine ratio of 25.9 mg/mmol, normal: <15 mg/mmol).
No pathological pattern was detected on mucopolysaccharide electrophoresis or oligosaccharide thin-layer chromatography.


DBS enzyme activity testing showed increased activity of α-iduronidase (23.96 μM/h, normal: >1.32 μM/h),
iduronate sulfatase (210.78 μM/h, normal: >4.45 μM/h), galactose-6-sulphate sulphatase (6.26 μM/h, normal: >1.02 μM/h),
arylsulfatase B (38.77 μM/h, normal: >3.45 μM/h) and α-hexosaminidase (76.35 μM/h, normal: >1.61 μM/h).
Urinary GAG excretion was normal. While no upper normal limits were cited for the lysosomal enzyme activities by the testing laboratory,
their generalized elevation in the clinical context was suggestive of mucolipidosis [13].