[source]
pmid = PMID:34819510
title = Heterozygous missense variant of the proteasome subunit β-type 9 causes neonatal-onset autoinflammation and immunodeficiency
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:620796
disease_label = Proteasome-associated autoinflammatory syndrome 6
[text]
Patient 1, the second son of nonconsanguineous parents in Okinawa, developed multiple exudative
erythemas in the face, trunk and extremities since 2 weeks after birth (Fig. 1a and Supplementary
Fig. 1a) and was hospitalized in University of the Ryukyus Hospital at one-month old due to fever
with elevated serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and hepatic aminotransferases. He was once
recovered from these manifestations without treatments, but developed febrile convulsion at 4
months of age and basal ganglia calcification was detected (Fig. 1e). At 7-month old extremely high
levels of serum creatinine kinase (CK) (11,800 IU L-1) and N terminal-pro brain natriuretic peptide
(NT-proBNP) (33,445 pg ml-1) were noted. Then cardiogenic shock with severe pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH) was revealed (Fig. 1d). PAH was not fully recovered, but somehow controlled
by intubation, systemic corticosteroid and administration of sildenafil, bosentan and ambrisentan.
He also showed myositis, which was revealed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
histological findings showing partially necrotic myofibers with mononuclear cell and eosinophil
infiltration (Fig. 1c and Supplementary Fig. 1b). Although autoantibodies were all negative, steroid
pulse was applied under a diagnosis of juvenile dermatomyositis. High-dose corticosteroid was
effective, but corticosteroid was hardly tapered and elevation of serum CK and enlargement of
exudative erythema with edema recurrently appeared even after intravenous γ-globulin (IVIG),
intravenous cyclophosphamide (IVCY), or oral administration of immunosuppressants including
cyclosporine, azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. Since 7-month old, he showed such episodes
of erythema with serum CK elevation, which lasted about two weeks and recurred with one to two
episodes per month. In one episode at 10 years of age serum cytokine levels were measured under
the use of steroids and immunosuppressive drugs. Serum levels of
interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IL-18 and IFN-γ were transiently high when erythema appeared
(days 0 and 4). IP-10 (418 pg ml-1) was also elevated, while IFN-α was not detected (day 0).
Although erythema lesion was worsened with increase of serum CK, decrease of white blood cell
count and the progression of anemia during steroid pulse, these indexes were gradually ameliorated
after steroid pulse. Although HLH was suspected, bone marrow aspiration test showed no prominent
abnormalities. Notably serum IL-18 levels were constantly high, but correlated with exacerbation
of manifestations. When erythema lesion and serum CK elevation were improved, some cytokine
levels again increased (day 18). This may foreshadow the next episode, which in fact happened
thereafter. At the same age, congestive cirrhosis with portal hypertension became apparent.
Respiratory syncytial virus infection occasionally recurred with low serum IgG level and IgG
supplementation was frequently required since 8 years of age (Table 1). Importantly, at 10-year old,
both TREC and KREC levels showed below 50 copies µg-1 DNA. Although the effects of
immunosuppressants (prednisolone 10mg and mycophenolate mofetil 500mg) cannot be excluded,
polyoma (BK/JC) viruses were detected in peripheral blood at 6 and 10-year old. Meanwhile, at 10-
year old during the treatment with dexamethasone, expression of ISGs was not upregulated in the
whole blood (Supplementary Fig. 1e) and p-STAT1 staining was also faint in the lesional skin, which
was obtained at 7-month old during the treatment with prednisolone.
Unfortunately, he died with acute liver hemorrhage at 11 years of age.
[text]
Patient 2, the first son of nonconsanguineous parents in the mainland of Japan, developed skin rash
in the face and extremities at 25 days after birth (Fig. 1b) and was then hospitalized in Gifu
Municipal Hospital and later Gifu University Hospital for convulsion and shock with decreased
white blood cell and platelet counts, increased serum hepatic transaminases, CK and CRP, and
increased protein concentration in central spinal fluid (CSF). Initially, acute encephalitis and
disseminated intravascular coagulation were suspected and steroid pulse with IVIG was
administered. However, he got worse with fever, skin rash (Supplementary Fig. 2a,b), pancytopenia,
splenomegaly, and increased serum ferritin and soluble CD25 at 43 days of age, and his symptoms
fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)-2004.
Intracranial calcification was revealed at 65-day old (Supplementary Fig. 2c). Autoantibodies including
dermatomyositis associated one were all negative. High-dose corticosteroid (prednisolone 3mg
kg-1 day-1) was effective for fever and skin eruptions, but not for pancytopenia and the high serum
CK and BNP. Chest CT scan showed pneumonia (Supplementary Fig. 2d) and cardioechography
showed severe PAH (Supplementary Fig. 2e,f), which was refractory to sildenafil and macitentan
and rather seriously progressive. Because of this lethal event, the patient was transferred to Nagoya
University Hospital. It should be emphasized that polyoma (BK/JC) viruses were detected in the
peripheral blood already at 31 days of age, at the time without any therapy. Flowcytometry analysis
of peripheral blood lymphocytes revealed decrease of CD8 T and γδ T cells and almost absence of
natural killer (NK) cells (Table 1 and Supplementary Table 1). NK cell activity was also decreased.
TREC and KREC levels were within normal range. Serum level of IFN-α (12.6-49.9 pg ml-1), as
well as those of IP-10 (1000 pg ml-1), IL-6 (ND-46.4 pg ml-1) and IL-18 (2120-4400 pg ml-1), were
increased and high IFN-α level was also observed in CSF. Expression of ISGs was
upregulated in the whole blood and p-STAT1 was positively stained in the skin lesion.