[source]
pmid = PMID:33727065
title = Successful treatment of a novel type I interferonopathy due to a de novo PSMB9 gene mutation with a Janus kinase inhibitor
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:620796
disease_label = Proteasome-associated autoinflammatory syndrome 6
[text]
A 1-month-old boy visited a hospital for evaluation and treatment of skin rashes, fever, pale face due to respiratory failure,
and cluster seizures. Initial blood tests revealed pancytopenia (white blood cell count at 3.83 × 109/L, hemoglobin at 7.6 g/dL,
and platelets at 52 × 109/L), elevated levels of liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase at 923 IU/L, alanine aminotransferase at 426 IU/L),
marked elevation of creatine phosphokinase (CPK at 26,839 IU/L), and abnormal coagulation test results, including prothrombin time-international
normalized ratio at 1.40 seconds, fibrinogen at 105 mg/dL, fibrin degradation products at 29.8 mg/L, D-dimers at 21.0 mg/L, and antithrombin at 33 %.
Cerebrospinal fluid tests were notable for increased levels of total protein (148.2 mg/dL), normal glucose (45 mg/dL),
and a normal cell count (11 × 106/L). Acute encephalopathy was suspected; the patient was initially treated with acyclovir,
cefotaxime, intravenous immunoglobulin, and methylprednisolone pulse therapy. His symptoms improved temporarily, but fever,
elevation of CPK, and seizures reappeared rapidly.
Serologic screening results for infectious pathogens and various encephalopathy-associated autoantibodies were uniformly negative.
Although serum PCR test results for BK virus and JC virus were transiently positive after methylprednisolone pulse therapy,
we confirmed that viremia test had negative outcomes without any specific antiviral treatment before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
The lymphocyte subset analysis (CD3, CD4, CD8, and CD19 cell counts) revealed mild lymphocytopenia, whereas the lymphocyte
stimulation tests with PHA and concanavalin A were within the normal limits.
Head computed tomography revealed bilateral calcification of the basal ganglia (Fig 1, A), which led to the suspicion of a type I interferonopathy.
Although we could not eliminate the possibility of the effect of viral infection, elevated levels of IFN-α were detected in both serum (36.5 pg/mL)
and spinal fluid (6.9 pg/mL) (Fig 1, E). A biopsy of the left quadriceps revealed primarily immature muscle fibers that were round and small,
measuring 7 to 16 microns in diameter. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed the expression of HLA class I molecule and deposition of the
membrane attack complex on myofibrotic membranes; these results suggested immune-mediated damage to the muscle tissue.
Chest computed tomography scan revealed mild pulmonary infiltrative shadows bilaterally in the dorsal lung fields and mild cardiomegaly,
and an echocardiogram revealed severe pulmonary hypertension with tricuspid regurgitation at a peak velocity of 5.18 m/s; the estimated pressure
gradient between the right ventricle and the right atrium at peak systole was 107 mmHg.
The pulmonary hypertension was unresponsive to multiple lines of treatment, including epoprostenol sodium, sildenafil citrate,
milrinone, macitentan, and inhalation of nitric oxide (NO). Venoarterial extracorporeal membranous oxygenation (VA-ECMO) was
introduced due to progression of right heart failure.
Under the approval from the institutional review board, we initiated therapy with the JAK inhibitor, tofacitinib,
at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg/d twice daily on day 1 after the VA-ECMO induction; the dose was increased to 0.3 mg/kg/d after 2 weeks.
Shortly after starting on tofacitinib, the serum level of CPK normalized and chilblain-like rashes improved.
VA-ECMO and NO inhalation were successfully withdrawn after 16 days and 39 days, respectively, without further complications.
His pulmonary hypertension was well controlled on sildenafil citrate and macitentan.
At age 7 months, he underwent an HLA 7/8 allele-matched unrelated cord blood transplantation after a reduced-intensity
conditioning regimen that included fludarabine (120 mg/m2) and melphalan (140 mg/m2) with total body irradiation at 3 Gy.
Tacrolimus and short-term methotrexate were used as prophylaxis against graft versus host disease. He was engrafted at day 14 after
transplantation; he developed mild skin graft versus host disease, which improved without additional treatment.
He also developed posttransplant nephrotic syndrome at day 104, which responded well to steroids and cyclosporin A.
Hematopoiesis was evaluated with short tandem repeat analysis, which revealed stable mixed donor chimerism undergoing gradual increase,
determined at 38.1% on day 28, 47.1% on day 116, 61.7% on day 179, 67.5% on day 350, and 63.1% on day 645.
At 2 years posttransplantation, the patient no longer requires tofacitinib or vasodilator drugs and is in
good health without fever, skin rash, pulmonary hypertension, or other symptoms associated with type I interferonopathy.