[source]
pmid = PMID:31997314
title = Report of the first patient with a homozygous OTUD7A variant responsible for epileptic encephalopathy and related proteasome dysfunction
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:OTUD7A
disease_label = Neurodevelopmental disorder with hypotonia and seizures	620790	AR	3
[text]
The proband was born at term after an uneventful pregnancy and delivery. His growth parameters were normal. 
He was the second male child of distant consanguineous Portuguese parents, both presenting with a learning disability. 
They had completed middle school but did not obtain a high school diploma. His 5-year-old brother was attending a regular 
school and presented nonspecific learning difficulties. However, his formal evaluation could not be performed because of the family context. 
Otherwise, the family history was unremarkable.
The initial evaluation of the patient occurred with the development of abnormal movements at 4 months described by the parents as loss of head control
for few seconds in association with hypotonia. However, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), performed at 5 months, was normal. Head control was acquired at 10 months.
He was able to roll over by age 12 months. At 14 months, the electroencephalogram (EEG) highlighted a typical pattern of infantile spasms with hypsarrythmia (Figure S2A).
The diagnosis of infantile spasms led to treatment with vigabatrin (VGB) and prednisolone, which resulted in complete control of the spasms 14 days after the initiation of treatment.
Repeated EEGs showed a continuous sleep and awake abnormal background pattern with frequent, multifocal sharp waves. The corticosteroid therapy was progressively lowered after 1month.
A follow-up brain MRI at 1year and 3months was performed, corresponding to 1month after the beginning of vigabatrin treatment.
The imaging revealed unspecific anomalies: T2/FLAIR showed bilateral hyperintensity of the globi pallidi and of the ventroposterolateral nuclei of the thalamus,
enlarged subarachnoid space, in particular in the frontoparietal region, bilateral sulcal widening of the cerebral hemispheres, enlarged cerebellar interfolial spaces
and a thin corpus callosum.
VGB-associated reversible MRI signal changes compatible with those presented by our patient have been described in the literature.
Proton MR Spectroscopy was normal. Lactic and pyruvic acid were normal in cerebrospinal fluid. Because of the control of the spasms, vigabatrin treatment was stopped at 18 months.
The follow-up EEG performed 2weeks after VGB withdrawal confirmed that the spasms were completely resolved and the patient was seizure-free.
On the last exam at 28 months, the parents declared that he had been able to sit without support since the age of 23 months.
He could not walk but was able to stand for a few seconds. He used three words: papa, maman, Kevin. He did not eat alone, did not point, and did not grasp with his whole hand.
He was able to wave goodbye and because he had developed a pincer grasp, he was partially able to grab and hold objects and transfer across the midline.
He also babbled, made eye contact and smiled in response to social stimuli. His weight and head circumference were 12.05kg (−0.5 SD) and 48.5 cm (−2SD), respectively.
He presented hypotonia. Tendon reflexes were normal, and there were neither Babinski nor Hoffman signs, and no tremors or hypokinesia. He was seizure free until 28 months
when he started to present atypical absence seizures characterized at the EEG by generalized spike and wave with motor manifestations.
He was thus initially treated with levetiracetam alone, allowing a significant decrease of seizures, which was subsequently associated with zonisamide allowing to achieve a seizure-free state.
