[source]
pmid = PMID:16636245
title = New HSN2 mutation in Japanese patient with hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 2
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:201300
disease_label = Neuropathy, hereditary sensory and autonomic, type II
[text]
A 39-year-old man first noted that he
felt no pain in his extremities during his teenage years. He had no
other developmental abnormalities. His parents and grandparents
were consanguineous (figure, A). The origins of the oldest family
members were Japanese. Neither his parents nor siblings were
affected.
He had a history of dermatitis factitia (onychotillomania) and
recurrent skin ulcers at the tip of his fingers and toes since his
twenties. He was diagnosed with Buerger’s disease at age 26
years. He had episodes of being febrile due to skin lesion infections,
resulting in the spontaneous or surgical amputation of affected fingers or toes.
He was admitted to our hospital at age 39
years. Neurologic examination revealed the loss of pain and thermal, vibratory,
or tactile sense in the distal limbs, showing a
“glove-and-stocking-type” distribution.
Tendon reflexes were almost absent in both the upper and lower limbs. He did not show
muscle weakness. Three fingertips of the right hand and two
fingertips of the left hand were defective; likewise, his toes were
shortened because of amputations (figure, B). With regard to his
autonomic functions, there were no complaints of sweating abnormality in the face,
body, and extremities. The sympathetic skin
response recorded from the palms was normal. There was no
evidence of orthostatic hypotension during the head-up tilt test.
Infrared thermographic analysis revealed that the resting skin
temperatures of his hands and feet were normal. There was no
impotence, constipation, or urinary disturbance.
A nerve conduction study showed the absence of SNAPs in the
median and sural nerves of both sides, whereas compound muscle
action potentials and motor conduction velocities in the median
and tibial nerves were within the normal range. Nerve biopsy was
performed on the sural nerve  showed typical
complete loss of myelinated fibers and a decreased number of unmyelinated fibers were
observed in the sural nerve. There was mild subperineurial edema; however, no inflammatory
cell infiltration or vasculitis was observed. The complete
loss of myelinated fibers without onion-bulb formation or
axonal degeneration is demonstrated. There is mild subperineurial edema; however, there is no inflammatory cell
infiltration or vasculitis

