[source]
pmid = PMID:11952552
title = Genetic analysis of a severe case of Netherton syndrome and application for prenatal testing
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:256500
disease_label = Netherton syndrome
[text]
The patient was the first child of consanguineous (first
degree cousins), clinically normal parents of Turkish
ethnic origin. The baby was born in the 36th week of
pregnancy with normal weight according to age.
Family history did not show any previous occurrence
of the disorder.
The patient presented with erythroderma accompanied by silvery white, exfoliative scaling, accentuated in
the area of the elbows, knees, cheeks and scalp. Mucous
membranes and nail plates were not affected.
There was no indication of an ectropium or eclabium.
Histological examination of a biopsy taken from the
lateral thigh showed an acanthotic, psoriasiform epidermis covered by a thin parakeratotic stratum corneum.
Absence of the stratum granulosum and spongiosis of
the basal and suprabasal layers of the epidermis were
evident. The upper papillary dermis showed a mild
perivascular lymphohistiocytic infiltrate (Fig. 2).
Light microscopy examination identified the characteristic hair shaft abnormality of NS, i.e. trichorrhexis
invaginata (bamboo nodes) defined by swelling and
invagination of the hair shaft. In addition multiple
sections with torsion twists (pili torti) were observed.
Ultrastructural examination by electron microscopy
revealed pronounced suppression of terminal epidermal
differentiation indicating a severe functional disturbance
of the epidermal barrier. The horn lamellae consisted of
incompletely cornified and parakeratotic cells containing multiple lipid droplets and residues of cellular
components. The upper layers of vital cells were barely
flattened and showed few structural components. Only a
few tonofilaments and only isolated keratohyalin granules were present that were not able to spread on the
scarce amount of tonofilaments (Fig. 4a). In most
regions there were only two to three exfoliating regressive horn cells and no keratohyalin at all (Fig. 4b).
Lamellar bodies were, in some places, decreased in
number and in general were poorly structured. In the
lower epidermal layers occasional exocytosis of lymphocytes could be observed (not shown).