[source]
pmid = PMID:30034812
title = Camurati-Engelmann disease: a case report from sub-Saharan Africa
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:131300
disease_label = Camurati-Engelmann disease
[text]
A 35-year-old female patient was referred to us. She had a 15-year history of left shoulder joint pain,
bone pain, progressive enlargement of bones in the arms and legs and waddling gait,
associated with general body weakness. Also protrusion of both eyes was reported.
There were no associated hearing and visual problems. Her cognitive and motor development was normal,
though from the age of 10 years she could not keep pace with her peers in sports activities.
No close relative had the same or similar symptoms; she has a 3 years old healthy daughter.
On physical examination she had prominent forehead, proptosis and blepharoptosis (Fig. 1).
Prominent palpable bones in upper limbs, humerus, ulna and radius (Fig. 2) and lower limbs (Fig. 3)
were noted with muscle wasting and pseudo-atrophy of skin above affected bones.
The left shoulder joint was tender, but not swollen. There were good passive and active joint movements.
Cranial nerve examination was normal.
She had elevated alkaline phosphatase of 256 μmol/L (normal range50-150 μmol/L) and
low calcium of 2.01 mmol/L (normal range 2.15–2.65 mmol/L). Full blood count, creatinine,
thyroid function test and uric acid were normal. ECG and chest radiography were normal.
Radiographs of left and right upper limbs (Fig. 4) showed bilateral, dense cortices of diaphyses,
sparing metaphyses and epiphyses.
Hyperostosis of diaphyses of long bones of upper limbs (arrows).
(A) Left humerus with irregular cortical thickening and medullary canal stenosis.
(B) Right humerus with irregular cortical thickening and medullary canal stenosis.
(C) Right radius and ulna with cortical thickening, medullary canal obliteration
and narrowing of space between radius and ulna.
(D) Left radius and ulna with cortical thickening, medullary canal obliteration and
narrowing of space between radius and ulna.