[source]
pmid = PMID:36420349
title = A Case of Autosomal Recessive Intellectual Developmental Disorder Type 5 Presenting with Epilepsy
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:611091
disease_label = Intellectual developmental disorder, autosomal recessive 5
[text]
This patient was born full-term from nonconsanguineous Nepalese parents in Nepal. The mother was a gravida 1 para 1 (G1P1)
female with an unremarkable pregnancy. The patient’s postnatal course was unremarkable. Developmental delays were first
appreciated around 1 year of age. He sat up on his own at 12 months, started combat crawling at 2 years, and walked at 3 years with an ataxic gait.
He moved to the USA at 5 years of age. He has never been verbal and his intelligence quotient (IQ) was found to be approximately 40.
Based on these findings, he was diagnosed with significant intellectual disability and autism. He was evaluated by an outside geneticist at
8 years of age with concern for dysmorphic features, significant microcephaly, and sensorineural and conductive hearing loss.
On exam, inverted nipples and shawl scrotum were observed.
At 11 years of age, he underwent an electroencephalogram (EEG) at a different facility due to concern about night-time agitation and staring episodes.
Reportedly EEG was abnormal and showed diffuse slowing along with focal spike and slow wave discharges without any electrographic seizures.
Antiseizure medications were not started.
At 14 years of age, he presented with a new type of seizure characterized by impaired consciousness, drooling, eye deviation, and mouth twitching.
The left side of his body would also hunch over. Each episode would last for 15–20 minutes and would often be followed by sleepiness. These episodes
occurred almost on a daily basis. He underwent 24 hours ambulatory EEG and interictal findings showed frequent generalized 1–2.5 Hz spike and slow wave
discharges (Figure 1) and sleep-activated focal epileptiform discharges without any electrographic seizures. He was started on Valproic acid.
The dose was slowly titrated up to 750 mg twice daily (30 mg/kg/day) but his seizures remained uncontrolled. As a result, Clobazam was added after 6 months.
Currently, he is on Clobazam 10 mg twice daily along with Valproic acid and this has been effective so far.
At baseline, the patient is nonverbal, cognitively delayed, and does not follow commands. He has increased tone throughout,
with strength against gravity in all extremities. Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ throughout without clonus. He ambulates mainly with a wheelchair,
although he can walk short distances with assistance and he has a wide-based spastic gait. He has a gastrostomy tube for feeding as he is unable to
eat anything by mouth. He has not been toilet trained and he wears diapers.