[source]
pmid = PMID:28757203
title = Biallelic Mutations in LIPT2 Cause a Mitochondrial Lipoylation Defect Associated with Severe Neonatal Encephalopathy
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:617668
disease_label = Encephalopathy, neonatal severe, with lactic acidosis and brain abnormalities
[text]
Individual 1 (P1), a boy, was the first child of non-consanguineous parents of French (mother) and Ivory
Coast (father) origin. He was born after an uneventful pregnancy and spontaneous delivery at term with
normal birth parameters (body weight 3,750 g, length 51 cm, head circumference 35 cm). Apgar scores
were 9/10/10. From birth on, he presented with truncal hypotonia, spastic tetraparesis, and dystonia.
Brain MRI showed marked supra-tentorial cortical atrophy with ventricular dilatation as well as bifrontal white matter abnormalities and delayed myelination (Figure 1Amiddle). MRS spectroscopy with
a long TE (144) showed a lactate peak (Figure 1B). This clinical and radiological presentation led us to
suspect a mitochondrial disease. At age 2.5 years, the affected individual was bed- and wheelchair-bound
with no head control. He could neither sit unaided nor speak or understand simple orders. He was
otherwise fully conscious and alert, and he could smile at times and follow with his eyes. His weight
was -2.5 SD, his length was at the median, and his head circumference (HC) was -4 SD. Major
swallowing difficulties led to gastrostomy. At the age of 3 years, he developed complex epilepsy treated
by oxcarbazepine (Trileptal®), clobazam (Urbanyl®), and topiramate (Epitomax®).
Electroencephalography at the age of 7 years showed in the awake state, an absence of occipital alpha
rhythm, polyrhythmic background activity with diffuse alpha, theta and rare delta rhythms, multifocal
spikes and sharp waves, sometimes in bursts or rhythmic sequences, with right posterior predominance
(Figure S3A). Cardiac ultrasonography, audiological and ophthalmological examination were normal.
At the age of 7 years and 9 months, the ventricular dilatation and sub-tentorial cortical atrophy were
increased. No episodes of metabolic decompensation have been documented.