[source]
pmid = PMID:30053862
title = A familial case of Galloway-Mowat syndrome due to a novel TP53RK mutation: a case report
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:617730
disease_label = Galloway-Mowat syndrome 4
[text]
Case II-1
This female baby was born after a gestational period of 39+3 weeks. The birth weight was 2250 g
(< 3rd percentile), height was 46 cm (5–10th percentile), head circumference was 29 cm (< 3rd percentile),
and the Apgar scores at 1 and 5 min were 5 and 7, respectively.
A diaphragmatic hernia was noted in the delivery room.
The initial serum albumin level at day one was 3.3 g/dL and the initial serum creatinine level,
which reflects the mother’s renal function, was 0.58 mg/dL. Imaging revealed a hiatal hernia
with gastric volvulus (Fig. 1). She also had facial dysmorphism including ocular hypertelorism
and low-set ears, and a brain magnetic resonance image (MRI) revealed microcephaly with a
simplified gyral pattern (Fig. 2a). Surgical repair of the hiatal hernia was performed 6 days
after birth without any serious events. The baby started to feed on a mix of breast milk and formula.
Two days after surgery, generalized edema developed with a decrease in urine volume.
Serum albumin levels decreased to 2.0 g/dL, serum creatinine levels increased to 1.29 mg/dL,
and 24-h urinary protein excretion was 2871 mg/day. Renal ultrasonography revealed increased
echogenicity of both kidneys with poor differentiation between the peripheral cortex and
central echogenic complex. At the age of 2 weeks, an open kidney biopsy was performed (Fig. 3).
Thirty-eight (44%) of 87 glomeruli exhibited segmental lobular collapse and sclerosis,
and some of the nonsclerotic glomeruli showed features of immature fetal glomeruli.
Tubules displayed severe focal atrophy and loss. Infiltration of mononuclear cells and fibrosis
were observed in the interstitium. A follow-up brain MRI at 4 months of age showed the progression of
diffuse brain atrophy with subarachnoid space widening (Fig. 2b).
Massive proteinuria persisted and serum creatinine levels began to rise rapidly at the age of 9 months.
However, the baby received conservative treatment only, including intermittent albumin replacement,
because the parents did not want immunosuppressive treatment or any other aggressive renal replacement
therapy. The baby died at the age of 10 months.