[source]
pmid = PMID:29110636
title = Phenotypic and genotypic aspects of Townes-Brock syndrome: case report of patient in southern Brazil with a new SALL1 hotspot region nonsense mutation
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:107480
disease_label = Townes-Brocks syndrome 1
[text]
The proband, VMFS, who was 5 years old at the time this report was written,
was born by normal vaginal delivery at 38.5 weeks gestational age with Apgar scores of 9 and 10
 (first and fifth minutes, respectively). His birth weight (2.735 kg), length (48 cm), and
 head circumference (34.5 cm) were within normal ranges. The pregnancy occurred with no
 intercurrences and no concerns were raised in prenatal examinations. The child was born with
 anal atresia, which was corrected by posterior sagittal anorretoplasty on his second day of life.
 After the operation, VMFS remained hospitalized for 10 days in the neonatal intensive care unit.
VMFS is the second child of non-consanguineous healthy young adult parents. He has a brother
(11 years old) with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and a cousin who was born with an
imperforate anus. The patient has exhibited developmental and speech delays. He displays
hyperactive and sometimes aggressive behavior, which has been managed with antipsychotic drugs
starting from the age of 4. He has a short stature for his age, a low anterior hairline,
left microtia with agenesis of the helix, bilateral preauricular tags, low set ears,
long eyelashes, epicanthus, a deviated nose with a downward pointing tip, and a short neck.
Skeletal anomalies were prominent and included a bifid thumb on the right hand,
a long left thumb with a size and shape similar to that of the second left hand finger,
and overlapping toes on the feet.
VFMS was also noted to have hypospadias and a hypochromic spot on the right thigh.
An abdominal ultrasound was normal. Echocardiography showed an atrial septal defect.
Cystourethrography showed vesicoureteral reflux (grade II) and
bilateral reduction of the distal urethral caliber.
However, blood tests results ruled out renal insufficiency,
and renal scintigraphy and ultrasonography findings were normal.
Analysis of auditory brainstem evoked potentials indicated bilateral moderate hearing,
with better responses to low-frequency stimuli. Brain computerized axial tomography and
 magnetic resonance imaging scans were normal (Fig. 1).
 An electroencephalogram (International 10–20 System of Electrode Placement), showed normal
 background activity. X-rays showed preaxial polydactyly with ulnar deviation (Fig. 2),
 and a rudimentary rib at T12.