[source]
pmid = PMID:27435956
title = Muckle-Wells Syndrome: A Case Report with an NLRP3 T348M Mutation
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:191900
disease_label = Muckle-Wells syndrome
[text]
A 5-year-old girl presented with a 4-year history of
recurrent urticarial skin eruptions. We first examined
the child at the age of 11 months, when she had an
urticarial rash flare consisting of different-sized
plaques on the trunk, extremities, and face (Fig. 1).
These skin lesions were evanescent in 24 hours and
were asymptomatic. Her body temperature was 36°C,
without any previous episodes of fever. She never had
conjunctivitis. She was born at 29 weeks weighing
1,200 g. She exhibited slight growth retardation
(height 72 cm, weight 7.8 kg). Her Romanian mother
had a history of chronic urticaria, arthralgias, and
deafness. Her 11-year-old brother and father were
healthy.
Laboratory examination revealed an elevated
white blood cell count (438,000/lL), a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR; 48 mm at 1 hour), and
high C-reactive protein (CRP; 8–10 mg/dL). Laboratory investigations of complete blood cell count,
electrolytes, rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibody,
and complement components (C3, C4, CH50) and
liver and renal tests yielded normal results. A chest
radiograph was also normal. Skin biopsy showed
moderate, nonspecific dermal inflammation and
perivascular infiltration with predominantly polymorphonuclear cells, compatible with common urticaria
without signs of vasculitis (Fig. 2A, B). Direct
immunofluorescence was negative.
A diagnosis of chronic urticaria was made and
therapy with systemic antihistamines was initiated,
with variable response. The intermittent urticarial
rash persisted for several years. The few laboratory
tests performed during this time showed anemia,
leukocytosis, and high CRP and ESR levels.
When she was 5 years old, the patient presented
with a severe headache. Magnetic resonance imaging
examination and lumbar puncture with an analysis of
the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed intracranial
hypertension (opening pressure 40–45 mm H2O).
Ophthalmologic examination found bilateral papillary edema without any other ocular abnormalities
(Fig. 3A).
