[source]
pmid = PMID:29575628
title = Congenital sodium diarrhea and chorioretinal coloboma with optic disc coloboma in a patient with biallelic SPINT2 mutations, including p.(Tyr163Cys)
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:270420
disease_label = Diarrhea 3, secretory sodium, congenital, syndromic
[text]
A two-month-old male with failure to thrive, hyponatremia, hypovolemia,
and cleft lip and palate was referred to the ophthalmology service for evaluation.
He was born to healthy, unrelated parents and had three unaffected siblings.
A cleft lip was noted on prenatal ultrasound and a repeat ultrasound confirmed
bilateral cleft lip and palate. Fetal echocardiogram was normal. The remainder of
the pregnancy was uncomplicated and he was born at 39 weeks via spontaneous vaginal
delivery with a birthweight of 2,953 grams (10–25th centile). He spent two days in
the hospital before being discharged home. At seven weeks of age, he was hospitalized
for dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities after seven days of vomiting and diarrhea.
An orogastric tube was placed to supplement his oral feeds. However, two weeks later,
he was readmitted for emesis and discomfort with feeds. Given his recurrent episodes
of failure to thrive and his cleft lip and palate, the decision was made to supplement
his parenteral nutrition with enteral nutrition through a gastrostomy tube.
On examination at two months of life, weight was 3.88 kilograms (<2nd centile),
length was 57 centimeters (25th centile) and occipitofrontal circumference was 39
centimeters (50th centile). Craniofacial features included a prominent and square
forehead, a prominent occiput, bilateral preauricular pits, and bilateral cleft lip
and palate with distortion of the nares (Figure 1). He was light averse in both eyes,
but had normal intraocular pressures by palpation. The anterior segment appeared normal,
but he had a large chorioretinal coloboma involving the optic nerve and macula in
his left eye (Figure 2). On review in ophthalmology clinic six months later, his
mother reported he was sensitive to light. At this time, he was noted to fix and
follow with each eye. He had normal pupillary responses and intraocular pressures
of 9 mmHg in each eye by iCare. He demonstrated an intermittent left exotropia
with grossly full extraocular movements. The anterior segment was notable for
irregularity of the corneal surface with significant punctate staining of both
corneas when examined with fluorescein eye drops and cobalt blue light. Although
there were diffuse punctate epithelial erosions in both eyes, there were no
frank epithelial defects. The right fundus was normal and the left fundus
demonstrated the same extensive optic disc coloboma, unchanged from prior examination.
A cycloplegic refraction was also performed and revealed +2.00 sphere/+1.00
cylinder × 090 for the right eye and +0.50 diopter sphere for the left.
Pathologic analysis of the duodenum demonstrated unremarkable small intestinal mucosa
with an intact brush border. Electron microscopy verified an intact unremarkable
surface epithelium, without evidence of tufting or microvillus inclusions, although
it can be difficult to detect the characteristic “tufts” associated with tufting
enteropathy on routine biopsies of the small bowel. The cell junctions between
the surface epithelial cells were intact and of normal configuration and the
epithelial cell organelles were of normal morphology.