[source]
pmid = PMID:30296944
title = Description of a novel RyR2 mutation in a juvenile patient with symptomatic catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in sleep and during exercise: a case report
[diagnosis]
disease_id = OMIM:604772
disease_label = Ventricular tachycardia, catecholaminergic polymorphic, 1
[text]
A 17-year-old Caucasian boy was admitted to our intensive care unit (ICU) after successful
resuscitation by emergency services. While performing running exercise in a fitness center,
he suddenly collapsed. Because neither pulse nor breathing could be detected by the bystanders,
immediate resuscitation was performed. In the first heart rhythm analysis conducted by the paramedics,
ventricular fibrillation (VF) was seen and immediately defibrillated into sinus rhythm. The patient
recovered quickly and was transferred to our ICU by the ambulance service. At admission, the
patient was in hemodynamically stable condition with normal vital signs (heart rate 95/min,
blood pressure 125/79 mmHg, auricular temperature 36.5 °C, respiration 15 breaths/min, oxygen saturation
of 100% on 4-L nasal cannula). The physical examination revealed no abnormal findings. Auscultation of the
heart showed a regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 and no murmurs or rubs. The breath sounds
of the lungs were equal and clear bilaterally with no wheezes, rhonchi, or rales. The patient was awake
(Glasgow Coma Scale score of 15) and orientated in all aspects. No focal sensory or motor deficits,
aphasia, or inadequate balances were noted in the neurological examination. Deep tendon reflexes and
cranial nerves II through XII were intact. Because there were no cerebral or other sequelae at the
time of hospital admission, we decided not to obtain a cranial computed tomographic scan,
owing to the patient’s young age. When asked about the event, he told us that he had no
symptoms prior to the collapse. However, in the years before, he had syncopated several times
while climbing stairs, playing soccer, and once when he got frightened. A general practitioner
previously performed an exercise ECG, which showed multiple premature beats under submaximal
stress (Fig. 1). As a result, beta-blockers were prescribed (metoprolol succinate 47.5 mg once per day).
Apart from this, the patient had no medical history or prior medication. The patient was a nonsmoker
with no regular alcohol consumption and an unremarkable family, social, and environmental history.
Twelve-lead electrocardiogram obtained during ergometry showing a bigeminus with
right bundle branch block morphology at 80 W. At this point, ergometry was stopped because
recurrent syncopes under physical activity were reported in this patient
At ICU admission, initial medical treatment included the first surface ECG after cardiac arrest,
which showed negative T-waves in V1 and biphasic T-waves in V2 (Fig. 2). The results of blood
tests showed normal findings without signs of cardiac ischemia or metabolic disorders (Table 1).
Respiratory disorders (bronchospasm, aspiration) or neurovascular events seemed to be unlikely
because the physical examination, blood gas analysis, and a pulmonary x-ray showed normal findings.
An echocardiogram revealed normal left ventricular function without wall motion abnormalities,
right heart strain, or valve disease. Additionally, a cardiac magnetic resonance
imaging scan was performed and showed normal findings.